
System Design approaches and summaries:


1. Ad click aggregator:

kinesis event streams -> flink (aggregates the events)

aggregation window 1 min

flush intervals - 10 seconds

shard by AD ID

If there is a HOT shard then the service send the events should know it then 
further shard the AD.ID 0:N 

Enable 7 rentention even if flink goes down the data is there.

Checkpointing in flink is an option if the aggregation window is greater than 5 mins.
Checkpoint to s3.

Periodic reconcilliation 

kinesis event streams -> s3 -> spark (map reduce) -> cron job -> 
reconcilliation worker -> OLAP (Online Anlytical Processing)


2. Uber

Location DB

Option 1:

Quad Tree 
recursively split the 4 quads

PostGIS supports quad trees.

Great for un-even density.

Options 2:

Redis store  (Geo-hashing) prefix tells you the larger region.

Great for high frequency writes.

No double booking a driver:
Redis store distributed lock, expiry of driver id after 5 seconds.  

3. Ticketmaster

No double booking a seat:
Redis store distributed lock, expiry of ticket id after 15 seconds.

Low latency search: Elatic search (search optimized DB) Inverted index.
Map the terms to the documents.

CDC to move the data from Postgres to elastic search.

CDN to cache the API request.

Seat Map in real time: Update the client to refresh the seat Map with long polling.
Other option is SSE (Server Sent Events) Unidirectional from server to client persistent connection.

Introduce the choke point. Virtual waiting queue. enabled for popular events.

Queue can be a redis store with sorted set (priority queue) send the notification to user through SSE when the user is out of the queue.

4. Dropbox

Upload large files:
Presigned urls from s3

S3 notification to DB via SNS notification on PUT object.

Chucks the files for large files:
Fingerprint is hash of the bytes of the file.

Sync between local and remote 

Windows:
FileSystemWatcher

MacOS:
FSEvents

EventBus for change of events for versioning like rollback or rollforward.

5. Web Crawler

6. Top K Youtube Videos

7. Search

8. News Feed

9. Youtube

10.














